we are planted in crisis this is very
clear
everyone knows the list of challenges
that we're facing
expanding world population unchecked
industrial pollution
escalating climate disruptions
increasing drought with the associated
forest fires
warmer oceans with stronger hurricanes
rising sea levels collapsing water
tables
species extinction fished out oceans
extreme economic inequality
unprecedented refugee migrations
unstable interlocked national economies
cities and nations going bankrupt
stockpiled weapons we dare not use
and knowing no end in sight
it's not an extreme statement to say
that we are
planet on fire
if you subtract a few from this list or
add a few
cumulatively the list is overwhelming
what i would like to do today is share
perspective on the world crisis that we
are entering
and will continue to deepen over the
years ahead
on the basis of the perspectives that
were given me or
the teachings that i received during my
psychedelic
experiences that i report in lsd in the
mind of the universe
but first let me give a little bit of
background just to my work
to set the stage for what for the
visions the sharing of the visions that
i'm going to
draw from that work
let me move this over to the side here
okay okay
so the work i'm the visions i'm sharing
today come from my work
diamonds from heaven are lsd in the mind
of the universe
now my lineage my psychedelic limit
lineage is squarely
in the tradition of stan groff it was
his early writings books published
in 76 and 80 that were the foundation of
my work
which determined the methodology that i
used in working with psychedelics
as you know those of you who know stan's
work
his work differentiates very clearly
between two different
modes of working with psychedelics
low-dose psycholytic therapy which is
designed to uncover the layers of the
unconscious
slowly gradually with therapeutic focus
and the second method a very different
method psychedelic therapy working with
high doses
here the goal was less to heal than to
trigger
a near-death experience that would give
terminal patients
terminal cancer patients an experience
of where they were going when they died
to trigger a near-death episode
experience
and therefore to relieve death anxiety
what i chose to do in my work was to
work with very high doses i saw that
if this could be done safely a few times
it could be done safely more than a few
times
and what i did as janet mentioned was i
worked
did 73 high-dose lsd sessions
over 20 years between 1979
and 1999.
at the end of my start end of my journey
i realized that i had gone
places and had experiences that were not
covered
in the descriptions of the early
psychedelic therapy
so i coined the term psychedelic
exploration to describe this protocol
it's the protocol of working
therapeutically meaning
in complete isolation with eye shades
headphones a sitter
carefully protected totally protected
from the world
isolated and then going very very deep
the difference between psychedelic
therapy and psychedelic exploration
is the number of sessions the high
number of sessions used
now though the method was extreme 500 to
600 micrograms is a very high dose of
lsd and i do not recommend
this protocol honestly i don't today
there were circumstances in my world
that allowed this work to be very
grounded
through all these 20 years of work i
followed the same protocol
the exact same sentence setting in all
the work the same sitter
using the same substance at the same
dose level
even in the same location in northeast
ohio
and using the same recording process by
stabilizing all these variables i think
it created a very very strong platform
that allowed me to generate
particularly clear access
to the deep consciousness of the
universe
in this work entering into deeper and
deeper states of consciousness and
digesting it as
carefully and as thoroughly as i could
i kept track of all my sessions taking
careful note
of their dates as i went through
i made a detailed record of each session
within 24 hours after the session
was over
when you work in a sustained fashion
with this powerful
uh psychedelic high doses of lsd
you go through not one death and rebirth
but you go through a series of deaths
and rebirths
in this image the drop below the line
represents our time space identity
our egoic identity and that first
turning of the circle
represents the process of ego death the
first death in rebirth
the loss of one's identity as a physical
human being
and one's first entry into spiritual
reality
the subsequent circles represent
repetitions
of the death and rebirth process as one
enters
deeper and deeper levels of the vast
expanse
of spiritual reality i follow stan in
adopting his vocabulary
to describe these states as the psychic
level
of trans personal experience the subtle
and the cause of love
i have no vested interest in that
cosmology that goes with this
but it's simply the principle that
repeating the process of surrender
leads to deeper and deeper encounters
with
well leads to encounters with deeper
structures of existence
now let me give a different image for
this
lsd is sometimes likened to a nuclear
bomb
of the psyche which was the nuclear bomb
being developed in the same decade that
lsd was developed when you do a
sustained
course of a very intense
psychotherapeutic process
it sets in motion a tremendous catalytic
energy
that is sustained over a period of years
so the
the sessions get deeper and deeper and
deeper in a sustained
fashion and it's not unlike a nuclear
bomb in this case
which reveals as the explosion continues
deeper levels of the atmosphere
these levels of the atmosphere were
always there
but they had been previously invisible
and now the force of this nuclear
explosion
brings them into our visual awareness
now this is just an analogy but
something like this also happens
in sustained psychedelic work the deeper
you go
if you go in a very sustained fashion
you don't simply start
over at the beginning of every session
but one session starts where the
subsequent sessions stopped
and you go deeper and deeper and
eventually
enter discrete levels of consciousness
which have their own discrete rules and
you acclimate to these levels of
consciousness
and learn how to become consciously
aware at these deep
levels but we're not talking about of
course
nuclear bombs here we're talking about
entering
the mind of the universe entering the
great expanse
of the consciousness which is the
consciousness
well how do we describe this
consciousness some would describe it as
god
or the divine i would prefer or
like to call it the mind of the universe
the mind of the cosmos
so in my personal journey into this mind
into this vast
consciousness which holds all of
existence i went through
multiple layers experiencing deaths and
rebirth
on this journey so i would differentiate
five basic core levels of reality that i
was working with in my sessions
the first took place at the level of my
personal mind
one's personal unconscious the second
at the level of the species mind
the third at the level of archetypal
mind
the fourth at the level of causal
oneness
and the fifth at the level of what i
call
the diamond luminosity which is the
source of the name
diamonds from heaven so let me very
briefly
just touch in on the chapters of the
book
to correlate them with this model
at the level of personal mind there is a
chapter called cross
crossing the boundary of birth and death
this is about what
stan calls crossing the perinatal level
of consciousness
we get into time and space by being born
we leave by dying
when consciousness is expanding beyond
physical reality
one enters a very complex domain where
one's experience of having gotten here
by birth
and leaving by death get intertwined in
a complex fashion
one goes through horrendous existential
crises
as one enters into a process which
culminates
in ego death and entry into spiritual
reality at the level of species mind
there are actually
three chapters in the book pertaining to
this level of the work
the first is the ocean of suffering
the fifth is deep time in the soul
and the six is initiation into the
universe
now i'm skipping some of the chapters in
the book as you can see there's an
introductory methodology chapter
and there's a chapter three where i give
a typical session day but these are the
chapters having to do
with the content of the visionary
experiences it opened
when i entered the ocean of suffer
suffering
i entered two years of work in which
i engaged vast vast stores of suffering
i experienced myself to become thousands
of human beings spread over
thousands of years experienced great
rage and
and violence and abuse
on the collective scale eventually i
came to the conclusion that this work
was not about healing my personal psyche
or deepening my personal ego death
that the intelligence of the universe
was using my
sessions to being to bring some type of
therapeutic release
to the collective unconscious of my
species the collective unconscious of my
family
and i go into this it great
length in the book deep time in the soul
was my first entry into what i call
deep time which is a mode of time which
lies outside linear time and space
it's not eternity it's not timelessness
but it's a different modality of
temporal consciousness
in this chapter for a year and seven
sessions
i experienced my complete life start to
finish
as a simultaneous hole it was both
ahead of me yet to be lived and yet from
another perspective
it already had been lived and i could
see it in its entirety
the experience of deep time deepened in
the next chapter initiation in the
universe
where the universe took me far beyond my
personal
uh my personal concerns and took me into
a series
of instructions and initiations into the
functioning of the universe and it's
here
that the story that i'm going to be
telling today began
in the middle of this work
entering archetypal the level of
archetypal mind is described in the
chapter
the greater reel of archetypal reality
[Music]
entering into a domain which was at the
one hand
uh lies beyond the species mind
engaging the archetypal forces which are
responsible
for creating time in space and for
the emergence of the forms that come
forward inside time and space
entering into a level of causal oneness
where the world ceases to
operate in parts even the very large
parts
of archetypal reality but the parts
become the reality the parts
parts dissolve into the universe
experienced as a
single organic whole a single
consciousness dissolving all the
boundaries
between beings all the boundaries
between levels
and one can experience the universe or i
experience the
universe as a single living pulsing
throbbing singularity a oneness
that underlies all differentiation
the diamond luminosity story is told
in chapter 10 it reflects
four years of work in 26 sections
during which i entered the state of
diamond luminosity
only four times the remaining sessions
during this four-year period were spent
in very intense cleansing
as my system worked to acclimate
the enormously powerful energies that
were present in these very very pure
states of consciousness what i call the
diamond luminosity what buddhism calls
dharmakaya the clear light of absolute
reality
and after that the final year of visions
of final vision
four sessions one year of work
but the missing chapter here is a
chapter i want to talk about today
it is the birth of the future human
and this is a story which completely
surprised me in my work because when i
began this work i thought this work was
about
personal healing or personal
enlightenment or some type of
personal transformation and yet my work
seems to have been profoundly connected
to the work that our species is doing
in history to the collective
purification processes and the
collective transformational processes
so in this chapter the birth of the
future human
i summarize the teachings that were
given to me
over about a 15-year period
it started in session 22 in the
initiation into the universe material
it continued up through the greater reel
of archetypal reality and the
benediction of blessings
it actually also continued into the
final vision material
and session 70 gave me one final
installment
in the vision of what is happening at
our time in history
so this is the material i'd like to talk
about today
and just to give you a quick preview of
where we're going
in the birth of the future human
material i discuss
two different bodies of visions the
first
i call the visions of awakening are a
series of visions that i received
between
1991 and 1994
over about a dozen sessions i divided
them
into six areas six
discrete visionary themes
i'll come back to that in a second the
second installment this one particular
session that stayed from 1995 that i
call the great awakening
now i'm about to turn off the powerpoint
but just to give you a quick preview of
the categories where we're going
the six themes of the visions of
awakening
are divine love
all humanity
a guiding intelligence
our species as a single being
collective purification
and the future human
the great awakening chapter is a story
of one day when i was taken deep into
the future
and there experienced the death and
rebirth
of humanity so that's where we're going
let me close this down
all right inside so
come back to here
ah get me back to zoom
i'm trying to get back to my zoom page
okay let me stop
ah there we go good
all right thank you for your patience
everybody
what i would like to do is share these
visions
with you today and i'd like to take a
chance
do something a little different i could
talk about the visions
or i could try to share the visions in a
deeper
more experientially oriented way
and that's what i'd like to try to do
today i'd like to try to share these
visions
in a way that would invite you to hear
them
at a deeper level than simply my talking
about them
what i suggest that we do is a little
experiential exercise
i would invite you to sit back and relax
and close your eyes while i read
a condom a condensed version of these
visions
to share them with you as i actually
recorded them myself
my sense is that the spoken word has a
an initiatory power that's simply
describing about things or talking about
things
don't have and i'd like to share these
visions with
you in a more direct and straightforward
manner
so i'd suggest to sort of detach from
your computer screen
there's nothing going to be interesting
here except me reading some of these
visions for
several minutes and i invite you to
listen to them with a deep heart
with a deep receptivity
i'm not going to put these visions in
context i would just simply remind you
that
there was a great price to be paid for
receiving these visions for where these
were taken and when i say visions i
don't mean things that i have seen
when one learns at this level one learns
about becoming
so you actually must become the reality
that you are
seeing in order to have deep knowledge
of it
and i know that these ex visions will
sound perhaps
extreme they will sound
exotic i would just remind you of the
context that these are visionary
statements that come out of years and
years of sustained psychedelic work
so let's begin
first the divine love the theme of
divine love
this was in the early initiation in the
universe material
i was taken back to the beginning of
creation
and there i experienced creation
as an act of supreme love
i was overwhelmed by the most
extraordinary cosmic love
coming at me from every direction
it was a love unlike anything i had ever
known before
and to awaken to this love was to
remember
a primordial decision that i had somehow
participated in all of us
had voluntarily chosen to be part
of the evolutionary process of creation
and creation was motivated was driven
by a cosmic love
i then experienced all the suffering
that humanity had endured throughout
history
is taking place inside this love
i realized that all the suffering
inherent in evolution
was noble beyond words it was all part
of a cosmic
plan that we had entered into freely
however unconscious of this fact we've
become
along the way the nobility of great
suffering
voluntarily shouldered in the name of
divine love
of suffering that would stretch across
millions of years
suffering that would become so
inscrutable that it would be used as
evidence that the universe was devoid of
compassion
this was the nobility of humanity's gift
to the creative intelligence of our
universe
this was an important vision because it
set the context for all the visions that
followed
and what it says is no matter what is
coming forward in history
no matter how hard the times are that we
are entering
it is all taking place in the context of
the divine love that inspired creation
and our love to participate and our free
choice to participate in creation
in response to this divine love
the second vision all of humanity
out of the seething desires of history
out of all the violent conflicts and the
schemings of individuals and nations
there was now driving forward a new
awareness
in human consciousness its birth in us
is no less difficult or violent than the
birth of a new continent
it drives upward from the floor of our
being
requiring a transposition of everything
that has gone before
to make room for its new organizational
patterns
the great difficulty i have is
describing the enormity of what is being
birthed
the true focus of this creative process
is not
individuals but all humanity
it is actually trying to awaken the
entire
species what is emerging
is a consciousness of unprecedented
proportions
the entire human family integrated in a
unified
field of awareness the species
reconnected with its fundamental nature
our thoughts tuned to source
consciousness
the scale of what i was witnessing took
my breath away
this was a jarring expansion of my
horizon
because coming out of the religious
traditions and spiritual learnings that
i had internalized
which really focused on the
transformation awakening
of an individual of all individuals this
showed me
that underneath that there was a deeper
process taking place
and that the creative intelligence of
the universe
was working to awaken the entire species
the third vision guiding intelligence
i saw humanity climbing out of a steep
valley
and just ahead on the other side of the
mountain
was a brilliant sun-drenched world that
was about to break over us
the time frame was enormous after
millions of years of struggle and ascent
we were poised in the brink of a sunrise
that would forever change the conditions
of life on this planet
all current structures would quickly
become irrelevant
all truths would quickly be rendered
passe
truly a new epic was dawning
the lives of everyone living in this
pivotal time in history
were helping to bring this global shift
about
as i witnessed this scene i saw that
though we did not know the deep future
at a personal level
there was a more encompassing level of
consciousness
that could see it very clearly
this was a deeply moving and clarifying
experience for me
individually we humans could not see
what was coming
and so did not understand why things are
the way they are
yet isolated from the future the present
makes absolutely no sense
to be ignorant of what is being built
would be to be functionally blind
and our species is not blind
there is an intelligence within it
guiding it
an intelligence that knows the future
and is preparing us for it
as systematically as we prepare our
homes
for the change of seasons
the fourth vision our species
as a single being
i was taken deeper into the unified
field of existence
and experienced the dynamics of
humanity's awakening
as movements being initiated and
orchestrated
by a single integrating intelligence
i experience the evolution of our
species as the systematic growth
of a single organism a unified being
that all of us are part of the subtlety
of the cooperation of the parts with the
whole
was extraordinary to experience the
incredible diversity of our species
as a single unified field made many
events
clearer new patterns sprang into view
and the patterns made transparent sense
nothing in our theological or
philosophical systems
does justice to these facts
what i then saw was that the unified
field of humanity was moving decisively
and precipitously
to become more aware of itself
whereas previously it had existed as an
extended fabric
largely unconscious of itself
now it was waking itself up
visually this took the form of energy
coming together
in swift contractive spasms
that created bright flashes of awareness
i repeatedly saw extended webs of energy
suddenly contract and explode in
brilliant flashes
in the past these flashes had been
swallowed
by the inertia of the collective psyche
and had not endured
now however the flashes were beginning
to hold their own
and to connect with other flashes
occurring around the planet
and as i trace the black lives matter
movement
i think of this vision i think of the
contraction
and the explosion of light which is
throwing light
on these dark shadows in our culture
the fifth vision collective purification
when an organism is called on from
within
to become more conscious it must first
cleanse itself of the psychological
byproducts
of living at its lower level of
awareness
it must bring forward the residue of its
past
and purge that residue from its system
in order to lay the foundation for a
more refined level of operation
our species was doing this in a
wholesale manner
and with great determination by
crystallizing within
itself generations that embody
our toxic legacy it was the coordinated
exercise
of the self-evolution of the species as
a whole
the poisons of humanity's past were
being brought to the surface in us
and by transforming these poisons in our
individual lives
we were making it possible for divine
awareness
to enter more deeply into future
generations
we had volunteered for this role for
both our personal good
and the collective good i
saw that this century formed a watershed
into which the karmic streams of history
were flowing
and that this as this process came to
fruition
the future condition of our species
would be
beyond anything we might project from
our current state of fragmentation
the present form of humanity is
transitional
we are cells in a super organism
intent on rapid change our very
constitution
the form of our species is a stage
in a longer evolutionary journey
and finally the sixth vision
the vision of the future human
at one point i was given a brief
experience of the future human we are
becoming
i was carried deep into the distant
future
and allowed to experience what will be
the abiding state of humanity
at that time what a magnificent being
just touching it filled me with rapture
calm and sheer delight
it felt clear warm and
whole there was an abiding sense of
oneness that went deeper than just the
feeling of being interconnected
it was a feeling of being truly one
underneath the diversity of life
such expansiveness such breadth of being
it was fully embodied spiritual
realization
the tantric awakening of our entire
species spirit
and matter in perfect balance
this penetrating glimpse transfixed me
its beauty grandeur and simplicity
pierced my heart
so for these four years in the
background
of these many sessions these messages
kept coming forward
kept presenting themselves kept filling
in the blanks
in the background helped me understand
what was taking place in history at the
deeper level
that we were on the cusp of this
profound spiritual awakening
that we were had entered into this
voluntarily
and that everything that was happening
to us was all part of a larger cosmic
plan
which was all part of the love
that the creative intelligence would
share with us
in the act of creation itself
the net result of these experiences
though they gave me a sense of what was
happening they helped me understand
why things were unfolding the way they
were it helped me understand
why the ocean of suffering what was
taking place
in these collective purification
processes
it focused me on the question how
how can the entire species be awakened
what will it actually take for humanity
to
make this quantum jump in its awareness
the visions of awakening showed me that
this was the project of history
but nowhere did it give me any idea how
nature how the creative intelligence of
the universe
was actually going to pull this off
meanwhile my psychedelic journey
continued
i had been going through the benediction
of blessings
i entered into the diamond luminosity
work
i had entered into the diamond
luminosity twice
with two more to come down the road
about once a year i was entering into
the ecstatic bliss
of the diamond luminosity and then right
in the middle of that sequence
when i was expecting to be taken again
into the diamond luminosity
instead i was taken into
the death and rebirth of the human
species
i would emphasize that this experience
completely introduced new categories for
me
because there was absolutely nothing
personal
about the state i was in not even the
residual personal
of individual ecstatic awakening
instead there was a wholeness about it
that was species-wide
its movement was the movement of my
species
as often happens in these sessions the
experience preceded
understanding and i simply began to
experience
new things and only slowly did i get my
bearings
on what i was experiencing
so this is the great awakening session
that took place
in 1995.
after a long personal cleansing process
and a long introduction i dissolved into
the species mind completely
and there had the following experiences
the core scenario
in a field of relative calm a small
anxiety began to grow
slowly people were looking up and
becoming alarmed
humanity was waking up an alarm to
events that had overtaken it
conditions got worse and worse
people became more and more frightened
as the danger
increased forcing them to let go of
their assumptions
at deeper levels there was less and less
for people to hold on to
fewer givens that they could assume how
they would live
where they would live what they would do
for a living
how society was organized what could be
possessed
the world as they knew it was falling
apart
decades were compressed into minutes and
i felt the people's fear
deepen as they lost more and more of
what they considered
the normal and necessary structures of
their world
step by step events were forcing a rapid
reassessment
of everything in their lives
the events that had overtaken earth were
of such scope
that no one could insulate themselves
from them
the level of alarm grew in this species
field
until eventually everyone was forced
into the melting pot
of mere survival we were all in this
together
families were torn apart parents from
their children
children from each other life as we had
known it
was shattered at the core we were
reduced
to simply trying to survive
for a time it looked as though we would
all be killed
but just when the storm was at its peak
the worst of it passed
and the danger slowly subsided
though many had died many were still
alive
as the survivors began to find each
other
new social units began to form
parents and children from different
families joined to form new types of
families
everywhere new social institutions
sprang into being
that reflected our new reality new ways
of thinking
new values that we had discovered within
ourselves during the crisis
every aspect of life was marked by new
priorities
new perceptions of the good new truths
these new social forms reflected new
states of awareness
that seem to spread throughout humanity
like a positive contagion these
new social forms then fed back into the
system
to elicit still newer states of
awareness in the people
and the cycle of creativity between the
individual
and the group spiraled
the whole system was becoming alive at
new levels
and this aliveness was expressing itself
in previously impossible ways
it was as if the eco had triggered
the myelinization of nerve cells in our
species brain
allowing new and deeper levels of
self-awareness to spring into being
and repeatedly there was the message
these things will happen faster than
anyone could anticipate
because of the hyper arousal of the
species mind
thousands of fractal images drove this
lesson home
again and again faster than anyone can
anticipate
the pace of the past was irrelevant
to the pace of the future
there were other components that were
shown me over the course of my long
journey
a lot of sessions were spent exploring
the dynamics of reincarnation
and showing me what i came to call the
birth of the diamond soul
that all of our former lives eventually
come together
and fuse into a singularity and in their
that fusion there is a release an
explosion of this diamond light
inside us and opening us to
a completely expanded sense of identity
ego yields to soul the small world of
the present body mind
yields to the much much larger world of
the soul
that travels in and out of time
effortlessly
so to summarize the core vision that
came from my sessions
that helped me personally understand
what's happening in history now
under our feet that humanity is coming
into a time
of profound transformation
a shift in the collective unconscious of
our species
a shift in the archetypal blueprint of
humanity
and a profound awakening into oneness
but for there to be this great awakening
there must first take place
a great death we must be empty to the
old
before the new can emerge
we must surrender our smallness
we must surrender the ego's constant
self-cherishing
with all the divisions that it brings
between
races religions classes
nations and even species
i believe that we are entering the dark
night of our collective soul
all mystics go through the dark night
before awakening into the bliss of
oneness they go through the dark night
which is a time of intense purification
and now i think humanity as a whole
is entering the dark night of its
collective soul
it is a time of emptying a time of
intense
anguish of loss of control and breakdown
a global purification unto death
that will last generations
but through this hard labor we will give
birth to something truly extraordinary
more than just a new civilization what
is emerging
is something is nothing less than a new
order of human beings
through the global systems crisis our
planet is giving birth
to the future human a higher form of
humanity
the diamond soul is being born in
history
and we are all part of its birth
i believe that each one of us before we
incarnated
knew what we were getting into and we
consciously
chose to incarnate at this time in
history
and in the places where we are in order
to contribute to
to participate and contribute to the
spiritual awakening of humanity
thank you very much and i think we have
a few minutes if we can
to handle some questions so i'll turn
this back over
to jason and jeanette
hi gosh i'm all choked up chris
that was beautiful thank you right let's
have a look at the questions
there's one question here from katie
carr
um katie do you want to ask that
question yourself
um jason can we unmute katie
or can i i'm here to go
there she is i'm here thank you so much
it's actually two questions i'll read
them out
first i'm intrigued in what you said
um massive appreciation
um but about the centrality of the human
species
in these visions and it seems kind of
anthropocentric given that
we invented the concept of species
anyway and i'm wondering about like
the place of non-human life in this
expanded consciousness
yes and so i'll read this
first one and then you can ask the
second one how about that
because this is a really important
question now i have friends
who have spent a great deal of time at
the interface of the human species and
animal species and actually immersing
themselves
into various animal species with various
insights
and my work has not been like that my
work has been really focused on the
human species
and i don't know why except for one
particular thing
i think the human species is the most
dangerous species on the planet
right now it is our the imbalances of
the human psyche
which are placing the lives and
well-being of the other species in peril
if we can heal and make right
make whole the human species
then the other species will be saved and
they will be safe on our planet
my best understanding is that my work
is really focused on the human species
not that it denies the importance or
of the other species but that is trying
to basically get it the problem where it
lives
and right now the problem where it lives
is inside the human heart
and our insensitivity to the larger
deeper rhythms of life
that we share with all the other life
pla forms
on our planet
yeah i i hear that it's like the biggest
potential for purification
is right here with us the essential if
the human species can be fixed so to
speak can be wakened up
everyone will be safe on the planet if
we're not
saved if we don't save ourselves and
wake ourselves up
then all life forms will continue to be
in danger
beautiful thank you um the second
question was
after this incredible gift of
realization
it's a big question what have you been
doing with your life for the last 20
years
[Laughter]
good question well
i spent 20 years really thinking about
these sessions and trying to understand
them it takes a long time to integrate
experiences this deep it turned out to
be
it much to my surprise coming down the
mountain of these visions
was almost as difficult as going up the
mountain
and the last chapter of the book is a
chapter called coming off the mountain
where i describe
some of the challenges i face coming
away from the visionary state
entering back into the fully
grounded condition so what i've been
doing is that i
continued to teach i mean i taught for a
number of years and i really couldn't
talk about my psychedelic practice
openly
until i had retired from the university
because
i i loved teaching and if i had talked
about let people know what i was doing
it would have terminated my academic
career
i continued to take care of my children
to shepherd them as best as one can
into their adult lives um
i have tried to deepen my spiritual
practice i've always been a meditator
always done some form of spiritual
practice which i think is
really important if you're going to
enter into what i would call the path of
temporary immersion
which is working with psychedelics it's
really important to have a stable
practice spiritual practice a daily
practice that takes care of your body
and your mind and helps you integrate
these extreme
swings of energy and these extreme ideas
that pour into us during a psychedelic
session
so i basically i've been digesting my
work i've been finishing out my life
process in the middle
part of my life i retired from the
university
i did a little more teaching but
basically i wrapped all that up by about
2015.
it took me five years to write this book
even though i had all the sessions
beforehand
it took me five years first it took me a
long time
just to get myself in the psychological
space where i would
be willing to share these experiences
because they are
so personal i mean they're so deep they
are
so intimate they are about my
relationship with the divine
and it took me a long time just before i
was willing to let
anyone have access to such deep places
within my own
life history but spirit kept telling me
no
you don't have the luxury of being
private right now it's all ores in the
water
things are speeding up people will be
able to use uh
your work in order to strengthen
and support their own life's journey
as we go into this time in history and
so
it turned right after i'd finished my
sessions
spirit said to me in my meditation 20
years in
20 years out which meant that it would
take
20 years for me to digest all the gifts
that i had been given
in that 20-year journey and it just so
happens that
diamonds from heaven was published 20
years after i stopped my last journey
[Music]
thank you i'm i'm really really grateful
uh that you started so young and have
shared with us thanks so much thank you
katie
yes i did start young i did this work
when i was 30 to 50.
and i'm now 71.
[Music]
thank you okay um
is it okay to move to the next question
um so this jamie mills
um can we can we unmute jamie mills
and thank you katie for your question it
was both questions very good questions
can we um mute jamie um
hi chris thank you for your um
[Music]
heart about sharing thank you jim nice
to meet you
as someone with children i'm
uh and trying to hold
this aspect in awareness i often
uh struggle with the normalcy
of life as well as with some
awareness of what is to come
and uh as part of that
i suppose there's the question of
do you anticipate seeing
[Music]
more than seeing these changes in your
lifetime
you know i want to emphasize that in my
visionary work
i was never given any particulars of how
when you know you know how it was going
to manifest
it's it appeared to be a global crisis
that was triggered by a
global climate change crisis uh it seems
to be
seem to be ecologically driven that
impacted
the political process the economic
process our social process
but in terms of when how specifically
no content whatsoever i was shown
that it was happening that it would be
happening i was shown
some of the collect some of the
mechanisms of the process and
um specifically how
the role that the collective psyche
would play
in catalyzing this change underneath our
feet
as quickly as is needed for us to
survive our foolishness
[Music]
i have children like many of us here
and i've been surprised
frankly with covid19 how quickly we have
escalated
into a sense of global crisis
how quickly we've had the rug pulled out
from under many of our feet
we've been had to rearrange our lives
dramatically
to me the pandemic
feels to be like an overture to a
symphony
it starts the process it it's it it
touches some of the themes of the
process that we're getting
into but it is not itself
the key crisis it is the beginnings of a
series of punctuated crises that will
uh move and deepen in the years ahead
and we're not powerless in fact how we
respond in the next 10 years will be
very important with how
deep this crisis will be
and will be generated i think we're
beyond the point of being able to
stop it but we're not beyond the point
of being able to influence it
during my lifetime
i expect that i am watching it begin
but i don't think i'll be watching it
finish i think that work is going to
fall to my
our children and to our children's
children i suspect this will last
generations
because we're talking about the pivoting
of an entire planet
and this will take time one of the
authors who has
really laid out the escalating scale of
the crises that we're facing
is dwayne elgin whose latest book he's
been a an
elder thinking through these issues for
decades in his life
and he's just published his last book
and it's called
choosing earth and he lays out the next
five decades decade by decade
how these crises are likely to be
compounding themselves
and it's all data driven it's it's not
visionary driven he's
really does his homework thoroughly he's
been monitoring all the international
forecasts
crunches the numbers and gives us a
sense of what's
likely to be happening in the decades
ahead and
the whole last part of the book is what
can we do
what can an individual do we don't have
to simply sit
take this lying down in fact we don't
want to simply take it lying down
we need to get up and mobilize and
mobilizing at two different levels
inwardly doing our spiritual homework
confronting the shadow that we have
carried into this time in history
and outwardly supporting the process of
healing the collective psyche
and confronting the shadow that it has
brought into this time in history so
there's
plenty of work to be done thank you
thank you chris um we've got
a couple of minutes if my clock is right
until quarter past do you want to take
one more question chris
or shall we yeah one more is fine
um so the next question is claudius
schwartz platch i hope i'm pronouncing
that correctly and thank you jamie for
your question
can we unmute chloe
hi claudia hi chris we met about one and
a half years ago at the conference in
philadelphia
um yeah i really enjoyed talking to you
and later i read your book and yeah
i'm really fascinated with your work so
my question is
from a christian perspective
i'm wondering whether the vision of the
future human
could refer to something like heaven
because what you describe sounds a lot
like the christian descriptions of
heaven
but of course how you are describing it
it's still
on earth so i'm wondering whether
there's a way we could integrate your
insights with the christian teachings
and whether christianity has ever played
a role for your explorations
certainly christianity did play a role
in my exploration i was raised in the
deep south i was raised in mississippi
and i was raised catholic and i got a
good shake from the catholic church i
i really i have no complaints about my
experience
being raised catholic and in fact my
first
vocation in life was to actually be a
catholic priest i was in the seminary
for three years in high school even and
one year in college
and i i left that behind in order to
choose a different course of course with
children of course with marriage
my life has been deeply influenced by
all the spiritual traditions of the
world i've taught world religions for
years i consider all of them dear
friends
but the two which have influenced me
most deeply has been christianity
and buddhism those are the ones that
i've drawn most
inspiration from i think you're
absolutely right i think what we're
looking at
is heaven on earth that is the vision of
moving forward that this is
an embodiment of heavenly states of
consciousness
in our physical existence now stepping
back
very quickly i know we don't have much
time so very quickly
all the religions of the last 5 000
years
have all been what i would call up and
out cosmologies
the idea is that you achieve a state of
salvation
or spiritual awakening and once you
achieve that state
you leave the hindu word for
enlightenment was
moksha escape escaping time and space
i think all of these cosmologies got
half of the message
but lost half of the message hadn't
gotten the second half of the message
yet and therefore they represent
incomplete visions of history
because it leaves unanswered the
question what is the purpose of time and
space
what is the purpose of this magnificent
universe
it's been called the veil of suffering
it's been called a place where
we just want to get out of it as quickly
as we can we want to get
back into the bliss of divine existence
and
i understand that in the period of
history that it
covered when we began to actually have
experiential access
to the deep deep divine truths
naturally we would feel drawn to being
there and
we could not realize these truths here
we would want to be there
but i think the deeper truths are really
coming into our awareness today
the more we understand the extreme age
and how much intelligence and how much
effort has been invested
in unfolding this universe for 13.8
billion years
and will continue to be unfolding for
billions and billions and billions of
years more
the more we begin to understand a
different vision for humanity and that
is
not that our goal is to awaken and leave
but our goal is to awaken
and incarnate divine consciousness
here in our body on this planet
and in this process cooperate with
taking creation
into a new developmental level
truly heaven on earth truly
fully awakened spiritual consciousness
in our physical bodies our egoic
consciousness
our present mind body consciousness
exploded
into the larger consciousness of the
soul another christian theme
but a soul textured with all of its
former life history
a tremendous expansion of the human
heart
because we have so many relationships
with so many people over so many
centuries
and also an expansion of the human mind
as we open
more easily and more naturally into the
divine consciousness
that nurtures all
i think is very it's very compatible
with christian vision
once we understand and make a couple of
small adjustments
thank you thank you chris